# CONSCIOUS WEB BROWSING FOR THE PREVENTION OF ACCIDENTAL SHARING OF PERSONAL AND SENSITIVE DATA PROTECTED BY GDPR

## Martino Mancino

Security experts confirm that more than 60-70% of breaches in organisations are accidental and they principally occur from unintentional activities due to ineffective business processes, lack of training and the majority happen in web browsers (Cheng et al., 2017). Software solutions monitoring the web browser’s file system I/O (Gugelmann et al., 2015) are available on the market, but small-medium businesses cannot afford the employment of such technology (Evans, 2015). This situation leaves these businesses without an affordable alternative that helps them to be compliant with the GDPR and exposed to high penalties of up to 4% of the business turnover for non-compliance and data breaches (GDPR.eu, 2018).

Machine-learning techniques embedded in the browsers could support users in identifying personal and sensitive data. Browser extensions are budget-friendly or free alternatives that small-medium businesses could adopt, and, at the same time, this tool could help employees to identify PII and reduce accidental disclosures. This research explores the possibility of employing the latest advancements in Natural Language Processing (NLP) called Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers (BERT), implementing such models directly in the browser extension. Like any other software, web browsers have access to a limited number of resources in a computer, and the possibility of running a model with a high level of accuracy is limited. We also investigate whether it is possible to create a BERT-based model that runs in the browser with an acceptable level of accuracy that is computationally efficient.

The artefact result of the research demonstrated to help workers rising awareness about inappropriate use of PII and helped to reduce the occurrence of accidental data breaches without compromising accuracy and efficiency.
